# ese224finalproject
Allows user to manage five substations that distribute power to different hospitals. Uses algorithm to efficiently distribute power to the hospitals during an outage depending on how energy-consuming a hospital is (determined by data and history of previous surgeries performed at the hospital)

The file named “tickets”, using a struct, defines a ticket and its attributes, such as the date, substation, etc. It also holds a vector that will hold any extra comments, as each individual ticket is updated. The class “Database” stores each ticket in a vector, and this will store every single ticket that belongs to every single substation. The methods included as part of this class include methods to read a csv file of tickets and upload them into the system, add an individual ticket to the system, update an individual ticket by adding comments, display all tickets in the system, display an individual ticket in the system, display all tickets particular to a substation, find all the tickets similar to another specific ticket from the entire system, as well as a method that does the same but for a specific substation. 
The file also has a struct that represents the substation, and its attributes include a variable that is true if the power is on, true if an alert was sent to the station, a vector that stores all the times an outage started, and another vector that stores all the duration of each respective outage. The methods that pertain to this struct include methods to check the power status of a substation, send an alert to a substation, and update the power status of a substation. 
Our file has a method that takes in the number of available crews, and uses an algorithm to distribute the crews to each substation in the most optimal way. The algorithm used to find this starts with looking at each ticket, finding every single ticket similar to this ticket from any substation, and finding the average of all those tickets. The average is then put in the “estimatedHours” vector, the position corresponding to the position of the ticket within the tickets vector. The next step the algorithm takes is adding up all the hours within the “estimatedHours” vector that correspond to each substation, and the result should be 5 different variables holding the total number of hours that are gonna be worked at the 5 different substations. Assuming that a crew can work at a station only for 8 hours at a time, the number of hours for each station is divided by 8 which represents the number of crews that will be needed at each station. Oftentimes, the number of available crews will be much less than the number of crews needed, so the relative proportion of the total number of crews that pertain to each substation will be taken from the actual number of crews available. 
The next file, “surgeries”, uses a struct to define a surgery and all of its attributes, including the date, the hospital at which it was performed, and the difficulty level of the surgery. It uses a vector named “surgeries” to store every single surgery. The defined methods include methods to read a csv file and store data about each surgery, add a new team and hospital to the “surgeries” vector, remove a team likewise, add a surgeon to a specific team, remove a surgeon, list all the teams, list all the surgeries in the vector, and a method to calculate the average difficulty of the surgeries performed by a specific team at a particular hospital. Additional methods display different statistics pertaining to the surgeries, such as success rate, surgery schedule, team schedule, and surgeon schedules. 
The method “optimize_capacity” takes in the available power and figures out the most optimal energy distribution based on how difficult and time consuming the surgeries are at each hospital. The algorithm first creates a vector “estimatedHours” and inserts the number of hours needed to complete every surgery in the “surgeries” vector, in their corresponding positions. Another vector “likelySurgeries” is used to store the type of surgeries that are likely to be performed during an outage, and these are the very difficult surgeries with a difficulty level above a certain predefined threshold. Now, the algorithm will use a hashmap to store the energy required by each different team and hospital and it finds the required energy by multiplying the available energy by the number of hours needed to finish the surgery. Obviously, the required energy is less than the available energy, so the algorithm gives the energy to the hospitals with the most difficult surgeries first, and the hospitals with the least difficult surgeries get the least power. 
Finally, the program has an implementation in the “main” file that predicts the type of power outages that will happen the following year based off data read off of a csv file. Information about power outages is stored in the struct “PowerOutageData”, a vector that stores objects of “PowerObjectData” holds data directly read off the figures in the project outline. The method “calculate” uses an algorithm where it first calculates the total outageTime by adding up all the outage durations in the csv file and then finding the average, and finds the number of teams by finding the number of data. The predicted number of outages the following year is the average number of interruptions calculated. The algorithm estimates the performance of different teams by iterating through every single surgery in the “surgeries” vector, and the portion of the total outage time they were engaged in. The total number of times we will be without power is the number of teams multiplied by the average outage time. The estimated number of customer interruptions is essentially the average number of customer interruptions which is found from the csv file.
